docs/src/workflow/examples.md, before:

# Examples

Before proceeding, we first outline the required package dependencies. The following packages are used throughout these examples:

```
using NeuralEstimators
using Flux                 # Julia's deep-learning library
using Distributions        # sampling from probability distributions
using AlgebraOfGraphics    # visualisation
using CairoMakie           # visualisation
```

The following packages will be used in the examples with [Gridded data](@ref) and [Irregular spatial data](@ref):  

```
using Distances            # computing distance matrices 
using Folds                # parallel simulation (start Julia with --threads=auto)
using LinearAlgebra        # Cholesky factorisation
```

Finally, the following packages are used only in the example with [Irregular spatial data](@ref): 

```
using GraphNeuralNetworks  # GNN architecture
using Statistics           # mean()
```

## Univariate data

Here we develop a neural Bayes estimator for $\boldsymbol{\theta} \equiv (\mu, \sigma)'$ from data $Z_1, \dots, Z_m$ that are independent and identically distributed realisations from the distribution $N(\mu, \sigma^2)$. 

First, we define a function to sample parameters from the prior distribution. Here, we assume that the parameters are independent a priori and we adopt the marginal priors $\mu \sim N(0, 1)$ and $\sigma \sim IG(3, 1)$. The sampled parameters are stored as $p \times K$ matrices, with $p$ the number of parameters in the model and $K$ the number of sampled parameter vectors:

```
function sample(K)
	μ = rand(Normal(0, 1), 1, K)
	σ = rand(InverseGamma(3, 1), 1, K)
	θ = vcat(μ, σ)
	return θ
end
```

Next, we implicitly define the statistical model through data simulation. In this package, the data are always stored as a `Vector{A}`, where each element of the vector is associated with one parameter vector, and where the type `A` depends on the multivariate structure of the data. Since in this example each replicate $Z_1, \dots, Z_m$ is univariate, `A` should be a `Matrix` with $d=1$ row and $m$ columns. Below, we define our simulator given a single parameter vector, and given a matrix of parameter vectors (which simply applies the simulator to each column):

```
simulate(θ, m) = θ[1] .+ θ[2] .* randn(1, m)
simulate(θ::AbstractMatrix, m) = simulate.(eachcol(θ), m)
```

We now design our neural-network architecture. The workhorse of the package is the [`DeepSet`](@ref) architecture, which provides an elegant framework for making inference with an arbitrary number of independent replicates and for incorporating both neural and user-defined statistics. The DeepSets framework consists of two neural networks, a summary network and an inference network. The inference network (also known as the outer network) is always a multilayer perceptron (MLP). However, the architecture of the summary network (also known as the inner network) depends on the multivariate structure of the data. With unstructured data (i.e., when there is no spatial or temporal correlation within a replicate), we use an MLP with input dimension equal to the dimension of each replicate of the statistical model (i.e., one for univariate data): 

```
p = 2                                                # number of parameters 
ψ = Chain(Dense(1, 32, relu), Dense(32, 32, relu))   # summary network
ϕ = Chain(Dense(32, 32, relu), Dense(32, p))         # inference network
architecture = DeepSet(ψ, ϕ)
```

In this example, we wish to construct a point estimator for the unknown parameter vector, and we therefore initialise a [`PointEstimator`](@ref) object based on our chosen architecture (see [Estimators](@ref) for a list of other estimators available in the package): 

```
θ̂ = PointEstimator(architecture)
```

Next, we train the estimator using [`train()`](@ref), here using the default absolute-error loss. We'll train the estimator using 50 independent replicates per parameter configuration. Below, we pass our user-defined functions for sampling parameters and simulating data, but one may also pass parameter or data instances, which will be held fixed during training:

```
m = 50
θ̂ = train(θ̂, sample, simulate, m = m)
```

To fully exploit the amortised nature of neural estimators, one may wish to save a trained estimator and load it in later sessions: see [Saving and loading neural estimators](@ref) for details on how this can be done. 

The function [`assess()`](@ref) can be used to assess the trained estimator. Parametric and non-parametric bootstrap-based uncertainty quantification are facilitated by [`bootstrap()`](@ref) and [`interval()`](@ref), and this can also be included in the assessment stage through the keyword argument `boot`:

```
θ_test = sample(1000)
Z_test = simulate(θ_test, m)
assessment = assess(θ̂, θ_test, Z_test, boot = true)
```

The resulting [`Assessment`](@ref) object contains the sampled parameters, the corresponding point estimates, and the corresponding lower and upper bounds of the bootstrap intervals. This object can be used to compute various diagnostics:

```
bias(assessment)      # μ = 0.002, σ = 0.017
rmse(assessment)      # μ = 0.086, σ = 0.078
risk(assessment)      # μ = 0.055, σ = 0.056
plot(assessment)
```

![Univariate Gaussian example: Estimates vs. truth](../assets/figures/univariate.png)

As an alternative form of uncertainty quantification, one may approximate a set of marginal posterior quantiles by training a second estimator under the quantile loss function, which allows one to generate approximate marginal posterior credible intervals. This is facilitated with [`IntervalEstimator`](@ref) which, by default, targets 95% central credible intervals:

```
q̂ = IntervalEstimator(architecture)
q̂ = train(q̂, sample, simulate, m = m)
```


The resulting posterior credible-interval estimator can also be assessed with empirical simulation-based methods using [`assess()`](@ref), as we did above for the point estimator. Often, these intervals have better coverage than bootstrap-based intervals.

Once an estimator is deemed to be satisfactorily calibrated, it may be applied to observed data (below, we use simulated data as a substitute for observed data):

```
θ = sample(1)               # true parameters
Z = simulate(θ, m)          # "observed" data
θ̂(Z)                        # point estimates
interval(bootstrap(θ̂, Z))   # 95% non-parametric bootstrap intervals
interval(q̂, Z)              # 95% marginal posterior credible intervals
```

To utilise a GPU for improved computational efficiency, one may simply move the estimator and the data to the GPU through the calls `θ̂ = gpu(θ̂)` and `Z = gpu(Z)` before applying the estimator. Note that GPUs often have limited memory relative to CPUs, and this can sometimes lead to memory issues when working with very large data sets: in these cases, the function [`estimateinbatches()`](@ref) can be used to apply the estimator over batches of data to circumvent any memory concerns. 

## Unstructured multivariate data

Suppose now that each data set now consists of $m$ replicates $\boldsymbol{Z}_1, \dots, \boldsymbol{Z}_m$ of a $d$-dimensional multivariate distribution. Everything remains as given in the univariate example above, except that we now store each data set as a $d \times m$ matrix (previously they were stored as $1\times m$ matrices), and the summary network of the DeepSets representation takes a $d$-dimensional input (previously it took a 1-dimensional input).

Note that, when estimating a full covariance matrix, one may wish to constrain the neural estimator to only produce parameters that imply a valid (i.e., positive definite) covariance matrix. This can be achieved by appending a  [`CovarianceMatrix`](@ref) layer to the end of the outer network of the DeepSets representation. However, the estimator will often learn to provide valid estimates, even if not constrained to do so.


## Gridded data

For data collected over a regular grid, neural estimators are typically based on a convolutional neural network (CNN; see, for example, [Dumoulin and Visin, 2016](https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.07285)). 

In these settings, each data set must be stored as an ($N + 2$)-dimensional array, where $N$ is the dimension of the grid (e.g., $N = 1$ for time series, $N = 2$ for images, etc.). The penultimate dimension of the array stores the so-called "channels" (this dimension is singleton for univariate processes, two for bivariate processes, etc.), while the final dimension stores independent replicates. For example, to store $50$ independent replicates of a bivariate spatial process measured over a $10\times15$ grid, one would construct an array of dimension $10\times15\times2\times50$.

 For illustration, here we develop a neural Bayes estimator for the spatial Gaussian process model with exponential covariance function and unknown range parameter $\theta$. The spatial domain is taken to be the unit square, and we adopt the prior $\theta \sim U(0.05, 0.5)$. 
 
 Simulation from Gaussian processes typically involves the computation of an expensive intermediate object, namely, the Cholesky factor of a covariance matrix. Storing intermediate objects can enable the fast simulation of new data sets when the parameters are held fixed. Hence, in this example, we define a custom type `Parameters` subtyping [`ParameterConfigurations`](@ref) for storing the matrix of parameters and the corresponding Cholesky factors: 

```
struct Parameters{T} <: ParameterConfigurations
	θ::Matrix{T}
	L
end
```
 
 Further, we define two constructors for our custom type: one that accepts an integer $K$, and another that accepts a $p\times K$ matrix of parameters. The former constructor will be useful during the training stage for sampling from the prior distribution, while the latter constructor will be useful for parametric bootstrap (since this involves repeated simulation from the fitted model):

```
function sample(K::Integer)

	# Sample parameters from the prior 
	θ = rand(Uniform(0.05, 0.5), 1, K)

	# Pass to matrix constructor
	Parameters(θ)
end

function Parameters(θ::Matrix)

	# Spatial locations, a 16x16 grid over the unit square
	pts = range(0, 1, length = 16)
	S = expandgrid(pts, pts)

	# Distance matrix, covariance matrices, and Cholesky factors
	D = pairwise(Euclidean(), S, dims = 1)
	K = size(θ, 2)
	L = Folds.map(1:K) do k
		Σ = exp.(-D ./ θ[k])
		cholesky(Symmetric(Σ)).L
	end

	Parameters(θ, L)
end
```

Next, we define the model simulator: 

```
function simulate(L, m = 1)

	# Spatial field
	n = size(L, 1)
	Z = L * randn(n, m)

	# Reshape to 16x16 images
	Z = reshape(Z, 16, 16, 1, m)

	return Z
end
function simulate(parameters::Parameters, m = 1) 
	Z = Folds.map(parameters.L) do L
		simulate(L, m)
	end
	return Z
end
```

A possible architecture is as follows:

```
# Summary network
ψ = Chain(
	Conv((3, 3), 1 => 32, relu),
	MaxPool((2, 2)),
	Conv((3, 3),  32 => 64, relu),
	MaxPool((2, 2)),
	Flux.flatten
	)

# Inference network
ϕ = Chain(Dense(256, 64, relu), Dense(64, 1))

# DeepSet
architecture = DeepSet(ψ, ϕ)
```

Next, we initialise a point estimator and a posterior credible-interval estimator:

```
θ̂ = PointEstimator(architecture)
q̂ = IntervalEstimator(architecture)
```

Now we train the estimators, here using fixed parameter instances to avoid repeated Cholesky factorisations (see [Storing expensive intermediate objects for data simulation](@ref) and [On-the-fly and just-in-time simulation](@ref) for further discussion):

```
K = 10000  # number of training parameter vectors
m = 1      # number of independent replicates in each data set
θ_train = sample(K)
θ_val = sample(K ÷ 10)
θ̂ = train(θ̂, θ_train, θ_val, simulate, m = m)
q̂ = train(q̂, θ_train, θ_val, simulate, m = m)
```

Once the estimators have been trained, we assess them using empirical simulation-based methods:

```
θ_test = sample(1000)
Z_test = simulate(θ_test)
assessment = assess([θ̂, q̂], θ_test, Z_test)

bias(assessment)       # 0.005
rmse(assessment)       # 0.032
coverage(assessment)   # 0.953
plot(assessment)       
```

![Gridded spatial Gaussian process example: Estimates vs. truth](../assets/figures/gridded.png)

Finally, we can apply our estimators to observed data. Note that when we have a single replicate only (which is often the case in spatial statistics), non-parametric bootstrap is not possible, and we instead use parametric bootstrap:

```
θ = sample(1)                          # true parameter
Z = simulate(θ)                        # "observed" data
θ̂(Z)                                   # point estimates
interval(q̂, Z)                         # 95% marginal posterior credible intervals
bs = bootstrap(θ̂, θ̂(Z), simulate, m)   # parametric bootstrap intervals
interval(bs)                           # 95% parametric bootstrap intervals
```

## Irregular spatial data

To cater for spatial data collected over arbitrary spatial locations, one may construct a neural estimator with a graph neural network (GNN) architecture (see [Sainsbury-Dale, Zammit-Mangion, Richards, and Huser, 2023](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02600)). The overall workflow remains as given in previous examples, with some key additional steps:

- Sampling spatial configurations during the training phase, typically using an appropriately chosen spatial point process: see, for example, [`maternclusterprocess`](@ref).
- Storing the spatial data as a graph: see [`spatialgraph`](@ref).
- Constructing an appropriate architecture: see [`GNNSummary`](@ref) and [`SpatialGraphConv`](@ref).

For illustration, we again consider the spatial Gaussian process model with exponential covariance function, and we define a struct for storing expensive intermediate objects needed for data simulation. In this case, these objects include Cholesky factors and spatial graphs (which store the adjacency matrices needed to perform graph convolution): 


```
struct Parameters{T} <: ParameterConfigurations
	θ::Matrix{T}   # true parameters  
	L              # Cholesky factors
	g              # spatial graphs
	S              # spatial locations 
end
```

Again, we define two constructors, which will be convenient for sampling parameters from the prior during training and assessment, and for performing parametric bootstrap sampling when making inferences from observed data:

```
function sample(K::Integer)

	# Sample parameters from the prior 
	θ = rand(Uniform(0.05, 0.5), 1, K)

	# Simulate spatial configurations over the unit square
	n = rand(200:300, K)
	λ = rand(Uniform(10, 50), K)
	S = [maternclusterprocess(λ = λ[k], μ = n[k]/λ[k]) for k ∈ 1:K]

	# Pass to constructor
	Parameters(θ, S)
end

function Parameters(θ::Matrix, S)

	# Number of parameter vectors
	K = size(θ, 2)

	# Distance matrices, covariance matrices, and Cholesky factors
	D = pairwise.(Ref(Euclidean()), S, dims = 1)
	L = Folds.map(1:K) do k
		Σ = exp.(-D[k] ./ θ[k])
		cholesky(Symmetric(Σ)).L
	end

	# Construct spatial graphs
	g = spatialgraph.(S)

	Parameters(θ, L, g, S)
end
```

Next, we define a function for simulating from the model given an object of type `Parameters`. The code below enables simulation of an arbitrary number of independent replicates `m`, and one may provide a single integer for `m`, or any object that can be sampled using `rand(m, K)` (e.g., an integer range or some distribution over the possible sample sizes):

```
function simulate(parameters::Parameters, m)
	K = size(parameters, 2)
	m = rand(m, K)
	map(1:K) do k
		L = parameters.L[k]
		g = parameters.g[k]
		n = size(L, 1)
		Z = L * randn(n, m[k])      
		spatialgraph(g, Z)            
	end
end
simulate(parameters::Parameters, m::Integer = 1) = simulate(parameters, range(m, m))
```

Next we construct an appropriate GNN architecture, as illustrated below. Here, our goal is to construct a point estimator, however any other kind of estimator (see [Estimators](@ref)) can be constructed by simply substituting the appropriate estimator class in the final line below:

```
# Spatial weight function constructed using 0-1 basis functions 
h_max = 0.15 # maximum distance to consider 
q = 10       # output dimension of the spatial weights
w = IndicatorWeights(h_max, q)

# Propagation module
propagation = GNNChain(
	SpatialGraphConv(1 => q, relu, w = w, w_out = q),
	SpatialGraphConv(q => q, relu, w = w, w_out = q)
)

# Readout module
readout = GlobalPool(mean)

# Global features 
globalfeatures = SpatialGraphConv(1 => q, relu, w = w, w_out = q, glob = true)

# Summary network
ψ = GNNSummary(propagation, readout, globalfeatures)

# Mapping module
ϕ = Chain(
	Dense(2q => 128, relu), 
	Dense(128 => 128, relu), 
	Dense(128 => 1, identity)
)

# DeepSet object
deepset = DeepSet(ψ, ϕ)

# Point estimator
θ̂ = PointEstimator(deepset)
```

Next, we train the estimator:

```
m = 1
K = 3000
θ_train = sample(K)
θ_val   = sample(K÷5)
θ̂ = train(θ̂, θ_train, θ_val, simulate, m = m, epochs = 5)
```

Then, we assess our trained estimator as before: 

```
θ_test = sample(1000)
Z_test = simulate(θ_test, m)
assessment = assess(θ̂, θ_test, Z_test)
bias(assessment)    # 0.001
rmse(assessment)    # 0.037
risk(assessment)    # 0.029
plot(assessment)   
```

![Estimates from a graph neural network (GNN) based neural Bayes estimator](../assets/figures/spatial.png)

Finally, once the estimator has been assessed and is deemed to be performant, it may be applied to observed data, with bootstrap-based uncertainty quantification facilitated by [`bootstrap`](@ref) and [`interval`](@ref). Below, we use simulated data as a substitute for observed data:

```
parameters = sample(1)       # sample a single parameter vector
Z = simulate(parameters)     # simulate data                  
θ = parameters.θ             # true parameters used to generate data
S = parameters.S             # observed locations
θ̂(Z)                         # point estimates
bs = bootstrap(θ̂, Parameters(θ̂(Z), S), simulate, m)   
interval(bs)                 # parametric bootstrap confidence interval              
```

Commit message:

Package extension: CUDA and Folds

docs/src/workflow/examples.md, after:

# Examples

Before proceeding, we first load the required packages. The following packages are used throughout these examples:

```
using NeuralEstimators
using Flux                 # Julia's deep-learning library
using Distributions        # sampling from probability distributions
using AlgebraOfGraphics    # visualisation
using CairoMakie           # visualisation
```

The following packages will be used in the examples with [Gridded data](@ref) and [Irregular spatial data](@ref):  

```
using Distances            # computing distance matrices 
using Folds                # parallel simulation (start Julia with --threads=auto)
using LinearAlgebra        # Cholesky factorisation
```

The following packages are used only in the example with [Irregular spatial data](@ref): 

```
using GraphNeuralNetworks  # GNN architecture
using Statistics           # mean()
```

Finally, various GPU backends can be used (see the [Flux documentation](https://fluxml.ai/Flux.jl/stable/guide/gpu/#GPU-Support) for details). For instance, if one wishes to employ an NVIDIA GPU when running the following examples, simply the load the following packages:  

```
using CUDA
using cuDNN
```


## Univariate data

Here we develop a neural Bayes estimator for $\boldsymbol{\theta} \equiv (\mu, \sigma)'$ from data $Z_1, \dots, Z_m$ that are independent and identically distributed realisations from the distribution $N(\mu, \sigma^2)$. 

First, we define a function to sample parameters from the prior distribution. Here, we assume that the parameters are independent a priori and we adopt the marginal priors $\mu \sim N(0, 1)$ and $\sigma \sim IG(3, 1)$. The sampled parameters are stored as $p \times K$ matrices, with $p$ the number of parameters in the model and $K$ the number of sampled parameter vectors:

```
function sample(K)
	μ = rand(Normal(0, 1), 1, K)
	σ = rand(InverseGamma(3, 1), 1, K)
	θ = vcat(μ, σ)
	return θ
end
```

Next, we implicitly define the statistical model through data simulation. In this package, the data are always stored as a `Vector{A}`, where each element of the vector is associated with one parameter vector, and where the type `A` depends on the multivariate structure of the data. Since in this example each replicate $Z_1, \dots, Z_m$ is univariate, `A` should be a `Matrix` with $d=1$ row and $m$ columns. Below, we define our simulator given a single parameter vector, and given a matrix of parameter vectors (which simply applies the simulator to each column):

```
simulate(θ, m) = θ[1] .+ θ[2] .* randn(1, m)
simulate(θ::AbstractMatrix, m) = simulate.(eachcol(θ), m)
```

We now design our neural-network architecture. The workhorse of the package is the [`DeepSet`](@ref) architecture, which provides an elegant framework for making inference with an arbitrary number of independent replicates and for incorporating both neural and user-defined statistics. The DeepSets framework consists of two neural networks, a summary network and an inference network. The inference network (also known as the outer network) is always a multilayer perceptron (MLP). However, the architecture of the summary network (also known as the inner network) depends on the multivariate structure of the data. With unstructured data (i.e., when there is no spatial or temporal correlation within a replicate), we use an MLP with input dimension equal to the dimension of each replicate of the statistical model (i.e., one for univariate data): 

```
p = 2                                                # number of parameters 
ψ = Chain(Dense(1, 32, relu), Dense(32, 32, relu))   # summary network
ϕ = Chain(Dense(32, 32, relu), Dense(32, p))         # inference network
architecture = DeepSet(ψ, ϕ)
```

In this example, we wish to construct a point estimator for the unknown parameter vector, and we therefore initialise a [`PointEstimator`](@ref) object based on our chosen architecture (see [Estimators](@ref) for a list of other estimators available in the package): 

```
θ̂ = PointEstimator(architecture)
```

Next, we train the estimator using [`train()`](@ref), here using the default absolute-error loss. We'll train the estimator using 50 independent replicates per parameter configuration. Below, we pass our user-defined functions for sampling parameters and simulating data, but one may also pass parameter or data instances, which will be held fixed during training:

```
m = 50
θ̂ = train(θ̂, sample, simulate, m = m)
```

To fully exploit the amortised nature of neural estimators, one may wish to save a trained estimator and load it in later sessions: see [Saving and loading neural estimators](@ref) for details on how this can be done. 

The function [`assess()`](@ref) can be used to assess the trained estimator. Parametric and non-parametric bootstrap-based uncertainty quantification are facilitated by [`bootstrap()`](@ref) and [`interval()`](@ref), and this can also be included in the assessment stage through the keyword argument `boot`:

```
θ_test = sample(1000)
Z_test = simulate(θ_test, m)
assessment = assess(θ̂, θ_test, Z_test, boot = true)
```

The resulting [`Assessment`](@ref) object contains the sampled parameters, the corresponding point estimates, and the corresponding lower and upper bounds of the bootstrap intervals. This object can be used to compute various diagnostics:

```
bias(assessment)      # μ = 0.002, σ = 0.017
rmse(assessment)      # μ = 0.086, σ = 0.078
risk(assessment)      # μ = 0.055, σ = 0.056
plot(assessment)
```

![Univariate Gaussian example: Estimates vs. truth](../assets/figures/univariate.png)

As an alternative form of uncertainty quantification, one may approximate a set of marginal posterior quantiles by training a second estimator under the quantile loss function, which allows one to generate approximate marginal posterior credible intervals. This is facilitated with [`IntervalEstimator`](@ref) which, by default, targets 95% central credible intervals:

```
q̂ = IntervalEstimator(architecture)
q̂ = train(q̂, sample, simulate, m = m)
```


The resulting posterior credible-interval estimator can also be assessed with empirical simulation-based methods using [`assess()`](@ref), as we did above for the point estimator. Often, these intervals have better coverage than bootstrap-based intervals.

Once an estimator is deemed to be satisfactorily calibrated, it may be applied to observed data (below, we use simulated data as a substitute for observed data):

```
θ = sample(1)               # true parameters
Z = simulate(θ, m)          # "observed" data
θ̂(Z)                        # point estimates
interval(bootstrap(θ̂, Z))   # 95% non-parametric bootstrap intervals
interval(q̂, Z)              # 95% marginal posterior credible intervals
```

To utilise a GPU for improved computational efficiency, one may simply move the estimator and the data to the GPU through the calls `θ̂ = gpu(θ̂)` and `Z = gpu(Z)` before applying the estimator. Note that GPUs often have limited memory relative to CPUs, and this can sometimes lead to memory issues when working with very large data sets: in these cases, the function [`estimateinbatches()`](@ref) can be used to apply the estimator over batches of data to circumvent any memory concerns. 

## Unstructured multivariate data

Suppose now that each data set now consists of $m$ replicates $\boldsymbol{Z}_1, \dots, \boldsymbol{Z}_m$ of a $d$-dimensional multivariate distribution. Everything remains as given in the univariate example above, except that we now store each data set as a $d \times m$ matrix (previously they were stored as $1\times m$ matrices), and the summary network of the DeepSets representation takes a $d$-dimensional input (previously it took a 1-dimensional input).

Note that, when estimating a full covariance matrix, one may wish to constrain the neural estimator to only produce parameters that imply a valid (i.e., positive definite) covariance matrix. This can be achieved by appending a  [`CovarianceMatrix`](@ref) layer to the end of the outer network of the DeepSets representation. However, the estimator will often learn to provide valid estimates, even if not constrained to do so.


## Gridded data

For data collected over a regular grid, neural estimators are typically based on a convolutional neural network (CNN; see, for example, [Dumoulin and Visin, 2016](https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.07285)). 

In these settings, each data set must be stored as an ($N + 2$)-dimensional array, where $N$ is the dimension of the grid (e.g., $N = 1$ for time series, $N = 2$ for images, etc.). The penultimate dimension of the array stores the so-called "channels" (this dimension is singleton for univariate processes, two for bivariate processes, etc.), while the final dimension stores independent replicates. For example, to store $50$ independent replicates of a bivariate spatial process measured over a $10\times15$ grid, one would construct an array of dimension $10\times15\times2\times50$.

 For illustration, here we develop a neural Bayes estimator for the spatial Gaussian process model with exponential covariance function and unknown range parameter $\theta$. The spatial domain is taken to be the unit square, and we adopt the prior $\theta \sim U(0.05, 0.5)$. 
 
 Simulation from Gaussian processes typically involves the computation of an expensive intermediate object, namely, the Cholesky factor of a covariance matrix. Storing intermediate objects can enable the fast simulation of new data sets when the parameters are held fixed. Hence, in this example, we define a custom type `Parameters` subtyping [`ParameterConfigurations`](@ref) for storing the matrix of parameters and the corresponding Cholesky factors: 

```
struct Parameters{T} <: ParameterConfigurations
	θ::Matrix{T}
	L
end
```
 
 Further, we define two constructors for our custom type: one that accepts an integer $K$, and another that accepts a $p\times K$ matrix of parameters. The former constructor will be useful during the training stage for sampling from the prior distribution, while the latter constructor will be useful for parametric bootstrap (since this involves repeated simulation from the fitted model):

```
function sample(K::Integer)

	# Sample parameters from the prior 
	θ = rand(Uniform(0.05, 0.5), 1, K)

	# Pass to matrix constructor
	Parameters(θ)
end

function Parameters(θ::Matrix)

	# Spatial locations, a 16x16 grid over the unit square
	pts = range(0, 1, length = 16)
	S = expandgrid(pts, pts)

	# Distance matrix, covariance matrices, and Cholesky factors
	D = pairwise(Euclidean(), S, dims = 1)
	K = size(θ, 2)
	L = Folds.map(1:K) do k
		Σ = exp.(-D ./ θ[k])
		cholesky(Symmetric(Σ)).L
	end

	Parameters(θ, L)
end
```

Next, we define the model simulator: 

```
function simulate(L, m = 1)

	# Spatial field
	n = size(L, 1)
	Z = L * randn(n, m)

	# Reshape to 16x16 images
	Z = reshape(Z, 16, 16, 1, m)

	return Z
end
function simulate(parameters::Parameters, m = 1) 
	Z = Folds.map(parameters.L) do L
		simulate(L, m)
	end
	return Z
end
```

A possible architecture is as follows:

```
# Summary network
ψ = Chain(
	Conv((3, 3), 1 => 32, relu),
	MaxPool((2, 2)),
	Conv((3, 3),  32 => 64, relu),
	MaxPool((2, 2)),
	Flux.flatten
	)

# Inference network
ϕ = Chain(Dense(256, 64, relu), Dense(64, 1))

# DeepSet
architecture = DeepSet(ψ, ϕ)
```

Next, we initialise a point estimator and a posterior credible-interval estimator:

```
θ̂ = PointEstimator(architecture)
q̂ = IntervalEstimator(architecture)
```

Now we train the estimators, here using fixed parameter instances to avoid repeated Cholesky factorisations (see [Storing expensive intermediate objects for data simulation](@ref) and [On-the-fly and just-in-time simulation](@ref) for further discussion):

```
K = 10000  # number of training parameter vectors
m = 1      # number of independent replicates in each data set
θ_train = sample(K)
θ_val = sample(K ÷ 10)
θ̂ = train(θ̂, θ_train, θ_val, simulate, m = m)
q̂ = train(q̂, θ_train, θ_val, simulate, m = m)
```

Once the estimators have been trained, we assess them using empirical simulation-based methods:

```
θ_test = sample(1000)
Z_test = simulate(θ_test)
assessment = assess([θ̂, q̂], θ_test, Z_test)

bias(assessment)       # 0.005
rmse(assessment)       # 0.032
coverage(assessment)   # 0.953
plot(assessment)       
```

![Gridded spatial Gaussian process example: Estimates vs. truth](../assets/figures/gridded.png)

Finally, we can apply our estimators to observed data. Note that when we have a single replicate only (which is often the case in spatial statistics), non-parametric bootstrap is not possible, and we instead use parametric bootstrap:

```
θ = sample(1)                          # true parameter
Z = simulate(θ)                        # "observed" data
θ̂(Z)                                   # point estimates
interval(q̂, Z)                         # 95% marginal posterior credible intervals
bs = bootstrap(θ̂, θ̂(Z), simulate, m)   # parametric bootstrap intervals
interval(bs)                           # 95% parametric bootstrap intervals
```

## Irregular spatial data

To cater for spatial data collected over arbitrary spatial locations, one may construct a neural estimator with a graph neural network (GNN) architecture (see [Sainsbury-Dale, Zammit-Mangion, Richards, and Huser, 2023](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02600)). The overall workflow remains as given in previous examples, with some key additional steps:

- Sampling spatial configurations during the training phase, typically using an appropriately chosen spatial point process: see, for example, [`maternclusterprocess`](@ref).
- Storing the spatial data as a graph: see [`spatialgraph`](@ref).
- Constructing an appropriate architecture: see [`GNNSummary`](@ref) and [`SpatialGraphConv`](@ref).

For illustration, we again consider the spatial Gaussian process model with exponential covariance function, and we define a struct for storing expensive intermediate objects needed for data simulation. In this case, these objects include Cholesky factors and spatial graphs (which store the adjacency matrices needed to perform graph convolution): 


```
struct Parameters{T} <: ParameterConfigurations
	θ::Matrix{T}   # true parameters  
	L              # Cholesky factors
	g              # spatial graphs
	S              # spatial locations 
end
```

Again, we define two constructors, which will be convenient for sampling parameters from the prior during training and assessment, and for performing parametric bootstrap sampling when making inferences from observed data:

```
function sample(K::Integer)

	# Sample parameters from the prior 
	θ = rand(Uniform(0.05, 0.5), 1, K)

	# Simulate spatial configurations over the unit square
	n = rand(200:300, K)
	λ = rand(Uniform(10, 50), K)
	S = [maternclusterprocess(λ = λ[k], μ = n[k]/λ[k]) for k ∈ 1:K]

	# Pass to constructor
	Parameters(θ, S)
end

function Parameters(θ::Matrix, S)

	# Number of parameter vectors
	K = size(θ, 2)

	# Distance matrices, covariance matrices, and Cholesky factors
	D = pairwise.(Ref(Euclidean()), S, dims = 1)
	L = Folds.map(1:K) do k
		Σ = exp.(-D[k] ./ θ[k])
		cholesky(Symmetric(Σ)).L
	end

	# Construct spatial graphs
	g = spatialgraph.(S)

	Parameters(θ, L, g, S)
end
```

Next, we define a function for simulating from the model given an object of type `Parameters`. The code below enables simulation of an arbitrary number of independent replicates `m`, and one may provide a single integer for `m`, or any object that can be sampled using `rand(m, K)` (e.g., an integer range or some distribution over the possible sample sizes):

```
function simulate(parameters::Parameters, m)
	K = size(parameters, 2)
	m = rand(m, K)
	map(1:K) do k
		L = parameters.L[k]
		g = parameters.g[k]
		n = size(L, 1)
		Z = L * randn(n, m[k])      
		spatialgraph(g, Z)            
	end
end
simulate(parameters::Parameters, m::Integer = 1) = simulate(parameters, range(m, m))
```

Next we construct an appropriate GNN architecture, as illustrated below. Here, our goal is to construct a point estimator, however any other kind of estimator (see [Estimators](@ref)) can be constructed by simply substituting the appropriate estimator class in the final line below:

```
# Spatial weight function constructed using 0-1 basis functions 
h_max = 0.15 # maximum distance to consider 
q = 10       # output dimension of the spatial weights
w = IndicatorWeights(h_max, q)

# Propagation module
propagation = GNNChain(
	SpatialGraphConv(1 => q, relu, w = w, w_out = q),
	SpatialGraphConv(q => q, relu, w = w, w_out = q)
)

# Readout module
readout = GlobalPool(mean)

# Global features 
globalfeatures = SpatialGraphConv(1 => q, relu, w = w, w_out = q, glob = true)

# Summary network
ψ = GNNSummary(propagation, readout, globalfeatures)

# Mapping module
ϕ = Chain(
	Dense(2q => 128, relu), 
	Dense(128 => 128, relu), 
	Dense(128 => 1, identity)
)

# DeepSet object
deepset = DeepSet(ψ, ϕ)

# Point estimator
θ̂ = PointEstimator(deepset)
```

Next, we train the estimator:

```
m = 1
K = 3000
θ_train = sample(K)
θ_val   = sample(K÷5)
θ̂ = train(θ̂, θ_train, θ_val, simulate, m = m, epochs = 5)
```

Then, we assess our trained estimator as before: 

```
θ_test = sample(1000)
Z_test = simulate(θ_test, m)
assessment = assess(θ̂, θ_test, Z_test)
bias(assessment)    # 0.001
rmse(assessment)    # 0.037
risk(assessment)    # 0.029
plot(assessment)   
```

![Estimates from a graph neural network (GNN) based neural Bayes estimator](../assets/figures/spatial.png)

Finally, once the estimator has been assessed and is deemed to be performant, it may be applied to observed data, with bootstrap-based uncertainty quantification facilitated by [`bootstrap`](@ref) and [`interval`](@ref). Below, we use simulated data as a substitute for observed data:

```
parameters = sample(1)       # sample a single parameter vector
Z = simulate(parameters)     # simulate data                  
θ = parameters.θ             # true parameters used to generate data
S = parameters.S             # observed locations
θ̂(Z)                         # point estimates
bs = bootstrap(θ̂, Parameters(θ̂(Z), S), simulate, m)   
interval(bs)                 # parametric bootstrap confidence interval              
```
